hi guys it's jambrose and i'm here with
my second video in the phase three and
phase four loot guide for physical dps
uh specifically i'll be doing
enhancement shaman
um
hopefully it'll be of some use for
either you to understand uh how much of
an upgrade or downgrade any given item
is
beginning or end of phase three and
phase four and maybe for some loot
council yields too to understand exactly
how
good certain items are for your class
explaining some of the methodology here
i use specifically uh najin's shaman
spreadsheet
um
with all these different settings that i
try to keep the same between all the
different classes
and
what is good for them
every single one will be a 182nd
duration fight
uh with a 7700 armor level 3 level 73
humanoid boss
uh it's all purely single target uh and
all the other buffs will be appropriate
raid and party buffs and debuffs on the
boss
that are appropriate for your class
specifically for enhancement it'll be
strength food agility strength scrolls
drums
the eternium chain for somebody in your
group will will be using that and
relentless assault
these are the groups that i'll be using
for all the simulations for the
different classes enhancement is in both
groups
all the numbers here are going to be
done for group one
but the difference between group one and
group two enhancement is extremely tiny
it was less than one percent uh i think
it was within about a five dps total
um
so it doesn't really make a huge
difference especially
since all the numbers are pretty
relative regardless
the top three items of the tier
uh
per slot will be simmed for comparison
with some exceptions for rings and
trinket combinations
they will use complete gear sets and
don't just sim individual items
um i'll get to that here in a second to
show you exactly what i mean
um like for example like two piece and
four piece bonuses and breaking those
and
changing out gems for hit rating
the tier 5 bis will be used to simulate
the opening of a hydro and black temple
and would be the largest upgrades right
off the bat
um
just as a side note the tier 5 items
will all use rare gems since epic gems
are not available yet however the item
that
is being
replaced
with the new item will be using epic
gems since it will be available
tier six fists
simulates the end of the tier and how
much of an upgrade or downgrade certain
items will be in a final gear set and
they will be using epic gems without
exception
going over the spec i actually did do a
restoration sub-spec instead of an
elemental subspec
i feel like it's a little more raid
benefit
uh this is the tier five this list for
enhancement shaman i do want to make a
little bit of a note here this does use
the four piece bonus with the shoulder
press of the stranger um
off piece
so if any of the other pieces of
non-shoulder pieces are replaced with t6
the shoulder
the shoulder pads will be replaced with
tier five to keep the four piece bonus
um
because it will never be an upgrade you
will have to choose
uh when you want to break your four
piece bonus uh so so so some of these
comparisons will give you the strongest
pieces to be able to do that and this is
your final tier six this right here
and i guess we'll get started with uh
the head head slot
previously it would be
uh the
tier five helm
uh and your best in slot here is gonna
be chris vision sargeras which is gonna
be a highly contested item and it's a
very large upgrade
and nothing else really comes close um
subbing out the helm uh you'd have to
replace the shoulders with tier five
um and that's just a dps loss all around
even if you put the tier six helm in
there and the force prowlers helm
it it's not an upgrade at all
um even in the final gear set it's up to
30 dps behind
for the next slot
uh the choker of endless nightmares is
really going to be the go-to here
the serrated blades is an upgrade as
well
but
enhancement shaman don't get a whole lot
of benefit out of armor pen they do get
some of course but compared to other
classes like warriors or rogues it's
really not as big of an upgrade i would
really consider the braided eternium
chain maybe possibly being second bits
here just because you provide so much
crit to the rest of your party as well
and you can always take a trade off with
you know other people your group and who
uses it next and
overall it's a great dps benefit
again here at the end of t6 uh serrated
blades can be a decent option
but still just a little too far behind
endless nightmares
it's a little interesting here
the shoulders everything is an upgrade
sort of um they're very small upgrades
even from just like
the uh the crafted ones if you're
leather working which i think most
enhanced shaman will go leather working
so both of those are bind on pickup
should the pattern drop but there's only
between two and four dps upgrade it's
barely worth it the one drop from the
gentis the mantle of darkness is right
up there with them
um these are not the best
uh technically best instead will be
swift strike but that will be after you
change out all your other pieces
um
but you can craft it right away
there's that even only for a marginal
upgrade
same thing here
uh not a whole lot changes by the end of
the tier it'll just be swift strike
but still for a tiny upgrade
for the cloak you
have a couple options
uh the vengeance wrap can be crafted
right away and while it is technically
available
in phase two you have rear gems as
opposed to
uh the epic gems so you can now put an
epic seven slot on that so it'll be
about a dps and a half upgrade
i don't know how much you would value
crafting that and using a red epic gem
uh to do that right off the bat um
but the this here will be the shatter me
destroyer straight the cloak of fans is
really close
however that doesn't come out until
phase four
but it's not the biggest upgrade and
there are other classes that may be able
to use it more
uh
compared to the clock fiends
um even that at the end of tier 6 it's
less than a 1 dps downgrade
i wouldn't put that too high at the top
of my list
uh for the chest this one is where you
start getting to like the bigger
upgrades you did normally use tier 5
and the tier 5 shoulders are not
particularly good
so it kind of says a lot to how much
this chest is an upgrade over
what you have here as about a 10 dps
upgrade
even though it is a pretty contested
item in the midnight chest card
the other two items here are
not upgrades at all
something you should avoid
the nether shadow tunic or even a
possibility of using epic gems in the
blood saver against vest is actually
down great as well
and even a bigger even a bigger impact
here at the end of tier 6 in fulbus
now this is where the big upgrades
really start
um
i guess the bracers in phase 2 were not
particularly good all three of these are
huge upgrades
deadly cuffs insidious fans uh bindings
of lightning reflexes
uh the
lightning reflex bracers in particular
are actually
crafted and boe so these can be bought
almost immediately
and are only a couple dps behind these
other two that are dropped
uh all three all these top two bracers
are pretty in demand
so you could get away with just crafting
your bracers
uh even at the end of tier six it gets
the difference gets even smaller
only maybe a 2 dps difference
for the hands
this is a little deceiving because it
looks like all of these are immediate
dps downgrades and they are
um you already asked me like how are
they all downgrades this is from the
tier 5 comparison
so you would have to switch out your
shoulder pads as a stranger
to tier five shoulders again
and none of these gloves are a big
enough upgrade
uh to justify
moving those shoulders
um however at the end of the tier
these groups of damage damnation are bis
um the fismuko are very close
uh and a little more distant third uh
are those uh sky shadow grips which are
your tier vi
um for the waist the belt of 100 deaths
is
still going to be best um the four dps
increase is just from switching out the
rare gems to epic gems
uh you have a couple other options uh
the bone weave and veil stalker girdles
they're not particularly close
you could do okay if you did not get the
vash belt in phase two
by replacing it with the bone weave
girdle which is a situational piece for
most physical dps classes
now for the legs your best is definitely
going to be the bow stitch leggings a
pretty significant upgrade
um
the other two are not great the asgalore
pants the shady dealers pantaloons are
immediately a dps downgrade right off
the bat
uh and you can tell just from enter tier
six piss
that the
shady dealers and the skulkers with all
epic gems in it are just not really
measuring up
for feet these are all huge upgrades
you previously were using the cobra lash
boots
but shadow masters boots saw soft step
boots of tracking the ninjas tabby boots
which come out in phase four with badges
are all really big upgrades
um
the first two you should probably be
able to get your hands on one of the
first two even though they're both
slightly or highly contested
but even if you're not able to are very
unlucky
the badges in phase four are almost
guaranteed
and that even that itself is just a 15
dps upgrade
and see here even in
the tier 6 comparison they're all just
incredibly close they're all within 2
dps
you could do worse having any of these
pieces
with the rings here um previously you're
using the band of the ranger general and
lethality ring for tier 5 bis
the lethality ring is a little bit
weaker than ranger general
even replacing ranger general some of
these are actually downgrades like the
unsolvable aggressors ring is actually a
couple dps worse
i've been surprisingly the signet of
primal wrath which is a very strong ring
from zolamon
uh is only about a three dps increase
here
the stormrage signaturing really stands
out as being strong
same case here if you replace the weaker
ring whereas the other ones actually
become a
dps increase
in tier six you're going to have a full
base of storm rage and primal wrath this
is how it kind of measures out
um
band of the ranger general and band of
the eternal champion are really close
um
so is the aggressor's ring to be honest
with you it really depends on what drops
if you if you didn't have band of the
ranger general in the previous tier
you can run with the other ones but
otherwise it ends up ahead actually
uh than the rep ring and unstoppable
aggressors
um
coming to the trinkets hopefully you
were lucky enough to get a dragon spine
trophy
um up up until this point
uh you do get anubis and madness of the
betrayer which is a very hotly contested
item however berserker's call in phase
four is actually very close to it as
only about a two dps downgrade
um
a lot of the other items are not close
um the ashton talisman you get from uh
the bt rep uh the bloodlust bruce which
is just a weaker version of berserker's
call basically
uh hopefully you'll be able to get the
combination of two of the top three
because it really makes a big difference
here
uh in terms of your totem you've been
using astral winds up until this point
finally in phase four
uh you'll be able to get a new totem
with 20 badges it's basically free
otherwise in phase three you'll still be
sticking with actual astral winds until
then
the thing that make
enhancement shaman a little unique is
that they choose weapon sets as opposed
to independent weapons
because they need to match uh
weapon speeds actually
so cypher the nathazim is a 2.8 speed
mace
and that is going to be your new best of
supremacy and black temple
coming up behind that pretty far behind
it is the season 3
arena weapons
there are a couple other options past
that rising tide after gentis and fury
which comes out in phase four in case
you're unlucky enough not to be able to
get anything else
um
unfortunately it's not really practical
to mix
syphon nathrezim with a bunch of the
other ones because
they have differing weapon speeds so you
really want to get double siphon if
possible
here in a full tier 6 bis a lot of the
things just really don't come close it's
really what you're aiming for is like
the biggest part of your upgrades in
phase three and phase four
i will note here this is a full off
piece this enhancement shaman
here four piece tier six is viable
um
this is a comparison between force
pierce four piece tier six and it's
different off pieces and five piece tier
six is just way behind
um the closest you'll get since our
cursed vision of sargeras and midnight
chest guard everything really falls off
from there
tiers should be easier to get
there's a lot of contested pieces in
here but if you're able to get one of
those and you have spare tier pieces
that may be worthwhile until you can
pick up more pieces
particularly like the bosach leggings
cursed vision to be very very hotly
contested
uh
and a bit of a summary here some of
these useless items that you will just
never really want
um the belts listed for sure if you did
get 100 deaths
if you didn't then the bone weave could
be an option
otherwise these two helms that
supremacist chest ascolar pants are not
good
you'll never use these
these
are upgrades
if nobody needs these or are easily
accessible they're big upgrades even if
you don't have this yet um berserker's
call is a great upgrade from zulumono
should be
pretty easy to get
the bracers which are boe are incredible
and then most people will not want
rising tide from magentas and until you
can get
a double siphon it could be an option to
match 2.7 speed weapons
and these are your highest priority
items
um
chris fisher and sargeras everybody
wants this trick of endless nightmares
uh the archimonde chest ascolar pants
stormrage signet ring these are all
really common high priority items that
physical dps want
fortunately you're the only one who
really wants siphon
so just really hope you get lucky on
those drops
and that's it uh thank you for watching
um
i had a lot of fun making this
uh follow my youtube channel follow me
on twitch
see how i play i normally play my rogue
there tell me how good i'm doing bad i'm
doing love to chat
leave me any comments below and thanks
for watching